and egg-free technologies allowing for guaranteed and faste
manufacture of influenza vaccines are needed to ensure timel
delivery for upcoming epidemic seasons and during potentia
avian flu pandemics, when egg supply may be impacted. Th
adoption of alternative vaccine development approache
(including mRNA, vector, and recombinant protein strategies
in the urgent response to the COVID-19 pandemic ha
demonstrated the feasibility of using more efficient methods t
producenew,effectivevaccineswithinaccelerateddevelopmen
timelines.Therecombinantquadrivalentinfluenzavaccine(RIV4
Flublok®, Supemtek® [EU, Canada], Sanofi Pasteur) was the firs
licensed influenza vaccine to be produced using recombinan
viralproteinsinsteadofantigensderivedfromliveinfluenzaviru
(as for inactivated split-virion and subunit vaccines). RIV4 is a
unadjuvantedvaccinecontaining45µgofHA/dosefromeacho
the four strains. The production of RIV4 is based on a nove
productionplatforminwhichrecombinantHA(rHA)isexpresse
in insect cells using a baculovirus expression vector syste
(BEVS)22. In brief, expresSF+insect cells are infected wit
recombinant baculovirus carrying the relevant influenza H
genes, which are expressed under the control of a baculoviru
polyhedrin promotor. rHA molecules from the infected cells ar
extracted using detergent and purified from the clarified cel
extract using column chromatographies followed by Q mem
brane filtration. Purified rHA is suspended in relevant buffe
using tangential flow filtration and passed through steril
filtration for storage and formulation22. RIV4 has undergon
extensiveclinicalassessment23,andwasfirstapprovedbyFDAi
2013. It is now licensed in the USA, Canada, Europe, Australia
and various other countries.