(2018).
19. Sautto, G. A., Kirchenbaum, G. A. & Ross, T. M. Towards a universal influenza
vaccine:differentapproachesforonegoal.Virol.J.15,17(2018).
20. Nachbagauer,R.etal.Achimerichemagglutinin-baseduniversalinfluenzavirus
vaccine approach induces broad and long-lasting immunity in a randomized,
placebo-controlledphaseItrial.Nat.Med.27,106–114(2021).
21. Orenstein,W.A.&Schaffner,W.Lessonslearned:roleofinfluenzavaccinepro-
duction,distribution,supply,anddemand–whatitmeansfortheprovider.Am.J
Med.121,S22–S27(2008).
22. Felberbaum, R. S. The baculovirus expression vector system: a commercia
manufacturingplatformforviralvaccinesandgenetherapyvectors.Biotechnol.J
10,702–714(2015).
23. Cox,M.M.&Hashimoto,Y.Afasttrackinfluenzavirusvaccineproducedininsect
cells.J.Invertebr.Pathol.107,S31–S41(2011).
24. Raymond,D.D.etal.Influenzaimmunizationelicitsantibodiesspecificforan
egg-adaptedvaccinestrain.Nat.Med.22,1465–1469(2016).
25. Skowronski,D.M.etal.Low2012-13influenzavaccineeffectivenessassociated
with mutation in the egg-adapted H3N2 vaccine strain not antigenic drift i
circulatingviruses.PLoSONE9,e92153(2014).
26. Zost,S.J.etal.ContemporaryH3N2influenzaviruseshaveaglycosylationsit
thataltersbindingofantibodieselicitedbyegg-adaptedvaccinestrains.Proc.
NatlAcad.Sci.USA114,12578–12583(2017).
27. Flannery, B. et al. Interim estimates of 2016-17 seasonal influenza vaccine
effectiveness-UnitedStates,February2017.MMWRMorb.Mortal.WklyRep.66
167–171(2017).
28. Shu,Y.&McCauley,J.GISAID:Globalinitiativeonsharingallinfluenzadata-from
visiontoreality.Eurosurveillance:bulletinEuropeensurlesmaladiestransmis-
sibles = European communicable disease bulletin 22, https://doi.org/10.2807/
1560-7917.Es.2017.22.13.30494(2017).
29. Song,L.etal.Efficaciousrecombinantinfluenzavaccinesproducedbyhighyield
bacterial expression: a solution to global pandemic and seasonal needs. PLoS
ONE3,e2257(2008).
30. Tussey, L. et al. Phase 1 safety and immunogenicity study of a quadrivalent
seasonal flu vaccine comprising recombinant hemagglutinin-flagellin fusion
proteins.OpenForumInfect.Dis.3,ofw015(2016).
31. Aguilar-Yanez, J. M. et al. An influenza A/H1N1/2009 hemagglutinin vaccine
producedinEscherichiacoli.PLoSONE5,e11694(2010).
32. Saczynska, V.Influenzavirus hemagglutinin asavaccine antigen produced i
bacteria.ActaBiochimPol.61,561–572(2014).
33. Davis, A. R. et al. Immune response to human influenza virus hemagglutinin
expressedinEscherichiacoli.Gene21,273–284(1983).
34. Rosales-Mendoza,S.etal.Whatdoesplant-basedvaccinetechnologyoffertoth
fightagainstCOVID-19?Vaccines8,183(2020).
35. Pillet,S.etal.Aplant-derivedquadrivalentviruslikeparticleinfluenzavaccine