with mutation in the egg-adapted H3N2 vaccine strain not antigenic drift in
circulatingviruses.PLoSONE9,e92153(2014).
26. Zost,S.J.etal.ContemporaryH3N2influenzaviruseshaveaglycosylationsite
thataltersbindingofantibodieselicitedbyegg-adaptedvaccinestrains.Proc.
NatlAcad.Sci.USA114,12578–12583(2017).
27. Flannery, B. et al. Interim estimates of 2016-17 seasonal influenza vaccine
effectiveness-UnitedStates,February2017.MMWRMorb.Mortal.WklyRep.66,
167–171(2017).
28. Shu,Y.&McCauley,J.GISAID:Globalinitiativeonsharingallinfluenzadata-from
visiontoreality.Eurosurveillance:bulletinEuropeensurlesmaladiestransmis-
sibles = European communicable disease bulletin 22, https://doi.org/10.2807/
1560-7917.Es.2017.22.13.30494(2017).
29. Song,L.etal.Efficaciousrecombinantinfluenzavaccinesproducedbyhighyield
bacterial expression: a solution to global pandemic and seasonal needs. PLoS
ONE3,e2257(2008).
30. Tussey, L. et al. Phase 1 safety and immunogenicity study of a quadrivalent
seasonal flu vaccine comprising recombinant hemagglutinin-flagellin fusion
proteins.OpenForumInfect.Dis.3,ofw015(2016).
31. Aguilar-Yanez, J. M. et al. An influenza A/H1N1/2009 hemagglutinin vaccine
producedinEscherichiacoli.PLoSONE5,e11694(2010).
32. Saczynska, V.Influenzavirus hemagglutinin asavaccine antigen produced in
bacteria.ActaBiochimPol.61,561–572(2014).
33. Davis, A. R. et al. Immune response to human influenza virus hemagglutinin
expressedinEscherichiacoli.Gene21,273–284(1983).
34. Rosales-Mendoza,S.etal.Whatdoesplant-basedvaccinetechnologyoffertothe
fightagainstCOVID-19?Vaccines8,183(2020).
35. Pillet,S.etal.Aplant-derivedquadrivalentviruslikeparticleinfluenzavaccine
induces cross-reactive antibody and T cell response in healthy adults. Clin.
Immunol.168,72–87(2016).
36. Pillet,S.etal.Immunogenicityandsafetyofaquadrivalentplant-derivedvirus
likeparticleinfluenzavaccinecandidate-tworandomizedPhaseIIclinicaltrialsin
18to49and>/=50yearsoldadults.PLoSONE14,e0216533(2019).
37. Ward,B.J.etal.Efficacy,immunogenicity,andsafetyofaplant-derived,quad-
rivalent, virus-like particle influenza vaccine in adults (18-64 years) and older
adults (>/=65 years): two multicentre, randomised phase 3 trials. Lancet 396,
1491–1503(2020).
38. Won, S. Y. et al. Characterization of the innate stimulatory capacity of plant-
derived virus-like particles bearing influenza hemagglutinin. Vaccine 36,
8028–8038(2018).
39. Pandey,A.etal.Impactofpreexistingadenovirusvectorimmunityonimmu-
nogenicityandprotectionconferredwithanadenovirus-basedH5N1influenza
vaccine.PLoSONE7,e33428–e33428(2012).
40. Sayedahmed, E. E. etal.Adenoviral vector-based vaccine platforms for devel-
opingthenextgenerationofinfluenzavaccines.Vaccines8,574(2020).
41. Xiang, K. et al. Progress on adenovirus-vectored universal influenza vaccines.
Hum.VaccinImmunother.11,1209–1222(2015).
42. Chen,J.R.etal.Betterinfluenzavaccines:anindustryperspective.J.Biomed.Sci.
27,33(2020).
43. Report to the president on reengeneering the influenza vaccine production
enterprisetomeetthechallengesofpandemicinfluenza.Availableathttps://
obamawhitehouse.archives.gov/sites/default/files/microsites/ostp/PCAST-
Influenza-Vaccinology-Report.pdf.AccessedAugust2021.
44. López-Macías,C.etal.Safetyandimmunogenicityofavirus-likeparticlepan-
demic influenza A (H1N1) 2009 vaccine in a blinded, randomized, placebo-